CLA.md, before:

# Presto CLA

All contributors must sign the Presto CLA ([individual](https://github.com/prestodb/foundation/blob/main/Presto%20ICLA.pdf) / [corporate](https://github.com/prestodb/foundation/blob/main/Presto%20CCLA.pdf)) prior to any contributions being merged.

There is no cost, and once you've signed the document you will be able to contribute to all Presto projects.

Please note that this is different from [membership in the Presto Foundation](https://prestodb.io/join.html). If your organization relies upon Presto, please become a member. Membership dues are the primary source of essential funding that we rely upon to support the Presto ecosystem.

### Who signs the documents?

You can either sign the Presto CLA as an individual or your company can sign and authorize you as a contributor.

The individual workflow is for people who can make CLA commitments on their own behalf (e.g., hobbyists, students, sole proprietors, etc). This workflow is fast and easy, but may not be appropriate for people who are doing work-for-hire. The corporate workflow is more complicated, but allows a company to sign one document and then manage all contributors (including pre-approval based upon email domain or GitHub org).

At a high level, the signature process works like this:

1. Open a PR against a repo covered by EasyCLA.
1. A bot will check whether your GitHub user is covered by a signed CLA.
1. If you're covered, you are done and your contribution can be merged.
1. If you're not covered, you'll be prompted through the signature process.

### Initiating the signature process against a test repo

The easiest way to initiate the process is to open a trivial PR against the [CLA onboarding repo](https://github.com/prestodb/easycla). Just fork the repo, make a trivial change, open a PR, and follow the steps.

## Sign as an individual

If you are working on your own behalf and can make IP commitments about what you produce, you can sign as an individual contributor.

1. Open a PR against any Presto repo (we recommend the [onboarding repo](https://github.com/prestodb/easycla)).
1. When blocked by the bot, follow the prompts and choose *Individual*.
1. Fill in the details and sign the DocuSign form.
1. Wait a little while for the check to re-run.

That's all there is to it.

## Have your company sign for you

If you are doing work for someone else (e.g., it's your job), the company might need to sign for you. The advantage here is that they can authorize other employees with a single signature. If your company has already signed the document but you're still blocked, you may just need to request your username be added to the list of authorized contributors. Either way, you'll have to confirm you work for them.

### If your company hasn't yet signed the agreement

1. Open a PR against any Presto repo (we recommend the [onboarding repo](https://github.com/prestodb/easycla)).
1. When blocked by the bot, follow the prompts and choose *Corporate*.
1. Choose your company from the list. If it's not there, add it.
1. Designate someone with signing authority (generally an officer or attorney, if in doubt ask your manager) to receive the DocuSign. This person is the *CLA Manager*.
1. Follow up with the CLA Manager and ask them to sign the DocuSign form.
1. The CLA Manager can now designate other CLA Managers who are allowed to manage your company's list of authorized contributors.

### When your company has finished signing the agreement

1. Once the agreement is signed, any CLA manager can [log into the EasyCLA site](https://easycla.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/#/) (choose EasyCLA v1) and either:
  * Add your GitHub username individually to the list of authorized contributors, or
  * Authorize any GitHub user with an email matching the corporate domain, or
  * Authorize any user who is a member of your company's GitHub org.
2. Once this is done, you'll probably need to click the *Details* link in the PR and click a button that acknowledges you want to be covered by the company.
3. Wait a little while for the check to re-run.

At this point, your PRs will no longer be blocked by EasyCLA on any Presto repo.

### Best practices

* Ask the CLA Manager to add the corporate email domain to the list of authorized contributors. If your company is very diligent about adding employees to a corporate GitHub organization, this is another good way to do it. Either way, it is much easier than adding contributors individually.

## Getting help

If your company is in the system but you don't know who your CLA manager is, you can email [operations@prestodb.io](mailto:operations@prestodb.io).

If you run into issues, you can [open a ticket in JIRA](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portal/4/create/143).

Commit message:

Update EasyCLA instructions
Signed-off-by: Brian Warner <brian@bdwarner.com>

CLA.md, after:

# Presto CLA

All contributors must sign the Presto CLA ([individual](https://github.com/prestodb/foundation/blob/main/Presto%20ICLA.pdf) / [corporate](https://github.com/prestodb/foundation/blob/main/Presto%20CCLA.pdf)) prior to any contributions being merged.

There is no cost, and once you've signed the document you will be able to contribute to all Presto projects.

Please note that this is different from [membership in the Presto Foundation](https://prestodb.io/join.html). If your organization relies upon Presto, please become a member. Membership dues are the primary source of essential funding that we rely upon to support the Presto ecosystem.

### Who signs the documents?

You can either sign the Presto CLA as an individual or your company can sign and authorize you as a contributor.

The individual workflow is for people who can make CLA commitments on their own behalf (e.g., hobbyists, students, sole proprietors, etc). This workflow is fast and easy, but may not be appropriate for people who are doing work-for-hire. The corporate workflow is more complicated, but allows a company to sign one document and then manage all contributors (including pre-approval based upon email domain or GitHub org).

At a high level, the signature process works like this:

1. Open a PR against a repo covered by EasyCLA.
1. A bot will check whether your GitHub user is covered by a signed CLA.
1. If you're covered, you are done and your contribution can be merged.
1. If you're not covered, you'll be prompted through the signature process.

### Initiating the signature process against a test repo

The easiest way to initiate the process is to open a trivial PR against the [CLA onboarding repo](https://github.com/prestodb/easycla). Just fork the repo, make a trivial change, open a PR, and follow the steps.

## Sign as an individual

If you are working on your own behalf and can make IP commitments about what you produce, you can sign as an individual contributor.

1. Open a PR against any Presto repo (we recommend the [onboarding repo](https://github.com/prestodb/easycla)).
1. When blocked by the bot, follow the prompts and choose *Individual*.
1. Fill in the details and sign the DocuSign form.
1. Wait a little while for the check to re-run.

That's all there is to it.

## Have your company sign for you

If you are doing work for someone else (e.g., it's your job), the company might need to sign for you. The advantage here is that they can authorize other employees with a single signature. If your company has already signed the document but you're still blocked, you may just need to request your username be added to the list of authorized contributors. Either way, you'll have to confirm you work for them.

### If your company hasn't yet signed the agreement

1. Open a PR against any Presto repo (we recommend the [onboarding repo](https://github.com/prestodb/easycla)).
1. When blocked by the bot, follow the prompts and choose *Corporate*.
1. Choose your company from the list. If it's not there, add it.
1. Designate someone with signing authority (generally an officer or attorney, if in doubt ask your manager) to receive the DocuSign. This person is the *CLA Manager*.
1. Follow up with the CLA Manager and ask them to sign the DocuSign form.
1. The CLA Manager can now designate other CLA Managers who are allowed to manage your company's list of authorized contributors.

### When your company has finished signing the agreement

1. Once the agreement is signed, any CLA manager can [log into the EasyCLA site](http://organization.lfx.linuxfoundation.org/) and either:
  * Add your GitHub username individually to the list of authorized contributors, or
  * Authorize any GitHub user with an email matching the corporate domain, or
  * Authorize any user who is a member of your company's GitHub org.
2. Once this is done, you'll need to click the *Details* link in the PR and click a button that acknowledges you want to be covered by the company.
3. Wait a little while for the check to re-run.

At this point, your PRs will no longer be blocked by EasyCLA on any Presto repo.

### Best practices

* Ask the CLA Manager to add the corporate email domain to the list of authorized contributors. If your company is very diligent about adding employees to a corporate GitHub organization, this is another good way to do it. Either way, it is much easier than adding contributors individually.

## Getting help

If your company is in the system but you don't know who your CLA manager is, you can email [operations@prestodb.io](mailto:operations@prestodb.io). If you think everything is correctly signed but the PR hasn't been re-checked, you can force EasyCLA to run by commenting `/easycla`.

If you run into issues, you can [open a ticket in JIRA](https://jira.linuxfoundation.org/plugins/servlet/theme/portal/4/create/143).
