# Presto TSC Meeting

## 2019-12-03
#### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

#### Community Calendar

#### How to Join
TSC meetings are open for all to join.

https://zoom.us/j/762982927

### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda
* Weekly automated good-enough (unit tests pass) releases
* Enable optimizations by default 
* How to respect / reward non-code contributions (building community, improving documentation, etc)

### Attendees

#### Voting members
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Maria Basmanova (Facebook)

#### Attendees
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Gale Mccommons (Linux Foundation)
* Mike Dolan (Linux Foundation)
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook)
* Ariel Weisberg (Facebook)
* Amit Chopra (Facebook)
* Jessica Zhang (Alibaba)
* Chris Aniszczyk (Linux Foundation)
* Haoyuan Li (Alluxio)

#### Not present
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)
* Jiexi Lin (Facebook)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)

### Notes from the meeting

#### Weekly automated good-enough (unit tests pass) releases
- How can we have confidence in such releases? Verification takes time using the presto-verifier.
- Can we have an open source test suite and run the tests on some cloud infra (e.g., Alibaba, Amazon)? It will take some time to get there, what can we do in the meantime?
- How much value does Facebook verification provide to other users, e.g., users running on Amazon?
- There is some consensus on having weekly releases, so that community has fast access to changes (fully automated, passing unit + integration tests, with proper release notes). In addition, there is also value in having thoroughly verified (bi-weekly) releases. There is also consensus in having both type of releases marked properly (e.g., thoroughly verified).

#### Enable optimizations by default
Discussion ensued over whether performance optimizations should be enabled by default.
- Many users try Presto and it has various new performance optimizations disabled by default, which may result in suboptimal performance when the users compare Presto with another system. 
- Most of the bugs are caught in a week after a feature/an optimization is put in production. So, there is no need to wait a lot of time after verification to enable features/optimization by default.

##### Actions
- Rebecca Schlussel ([@rschlussel](https://github.com/rschlussel)) will go back and look at past features/optimizations, and make sure to enable the ones that can be enabled by default.

#### How to respect / reward non-code contributions (building community, improving documentation, etc)
Discussion ensued over how the Presto project can reward/recognize contributions other than source code.
- Some communities have a thanks/acknowledgement file in their repo and that file has the list of folks who contributed (not necessarily source code).
- "Thank you" swags are another option. Amit Chopra (Facebook) can help send over such swags. 
- Such contributions can also be recognized more broadly through Presto's social media pages.
- Another idea that was brought up is to have yearly review posts to acknowledge such contributions.
- Some large & established communities have ambassador programs for supporting long time evangelists.
- There is consensus in starting with thank you/acknowledgement in release notes and/or in some other file in the Presto repo.
