# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-02-11
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar
[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join
TSC meetings are open for all to join.

https://zoom.us/j/762982927

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda
- FYI PrestoCon + CFP closes Feb 7th: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/prestocon/
- Uber representative on TSC
- Code of Conduct Approval: https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/11
- Approve default CONTRIBUTING.md: https://github.com/prestodb/.github/pull/1
  - Discuss deprecating overlapping content in the wiki
- Discuss [changes to tsc README.md](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/28)
  - Terms of TSC members
  - Who is eligible to be a TSC member
  - Nominating procedures
  - Election procedures
  - Replacement procedures
- New additions to CHARTER.md
  - Clarify quorum rules (e.g., members who miss _n_ consecutive meetings don't count toward quorum)?
  - Set a maximum number of TSC members
  - Create a few governing board-appointed seats for bidirectional representation?
- Rename mailing lists: presto-community -> presto-user, and presto-tsc -> presto-dev

### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)

#### Attendees
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Gale Mccommons (Linux Foundation)
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* Haoyuan Li (Alluxio)
* Girish Baliga (Uber)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Shixuan
* Vivek Bharathan
* Gurmeet Singh (Uber)

#### Not present
*Maria Basmanova (Facebook)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)

### Action Items
1. Nezih will propose a vote to the TSC mailing list to add Venki as the Uber representative and committer

### Discussion Items
### Presto Con
Nezih noted that CFP is still open, early bird registration was extended by the outreach committee. 

### TSC Uber Representation
Nezih introduced the topic of representing Uber on the TSC. The previous committer representing Uber has left the company, and Girish would like to nominate Venki as the new Uber representative on the TSC. 

### Code of Conduct Approval Vote
Nezih noted that Gale sent an email to the TSC list with the PR, and requested that all members review the PR and provide a vote to the mailing list. 

### CONTRIBUTING.md file Approval Vote
Nezih requested that the TSC review the PR and respond to the email in the mailing list with a vote. 

### README.md Approval Vote
Nezih requested that TSC members review and vote on PR. 

### CHARTER.md Update
Nezih noted this an update to the charter with clarification of quorom rules. This is an additional PR that all are asked to review.

### Mailing List Rename
Nezih noted that Brian emailed the TSC mailing list with the updates to the mailing list naming convention that were discussed in the previous TSC meeting. 

The meeting adjourned at 09:23 PT. 


