meetings/2020-01-28.md, before:

# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-01-28
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar
[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join
TSC meetings are open for all to join.

https://zoom.us/j/762982927

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda
- FYI PrestoCon + CFP closes Feb 7th: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/prestocon/
- Code of Conduct Approval: https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/11
- Approve default CONTRIBUTING.md: https://github.com/prestodb/.github/pull/1
- Separation of TSC & committers, finalize process

### Attendees
* Chris Aniszczyk (LF)
* Nezih Yigitbasi (FB)

#### Voting members

#### Not present

### Notes from the meeting

Commit message:

Add agenda item to discuss updated README.md
We have a number of proposals to bring to the TSC related to self-governance.  They can be found in PR #28 .

Signed-off-by: Brian Warner <brian@bdwarner.com>

meetings/2020-01-28.md, after:

# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-01-28
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar
[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join
TSC meetings are open for all to join.

https://zoom.us/j/762982927

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda
- FYI PrestoCon + CFP closes Feb 7th: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/prestocon/
- Code of Conduct Approval: https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/11
- Approve default CONTRIBUTING.md: https://github.com/prestodb/.github/pull/1
- Discuss [changes to tsc README.md](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/28)
  - Terms of TSC members
  - Who is eligible to be a TSC member
  - Nominating procedures
  - Election procedures
  - Replacement procedures
- Rename mailing lists: presto-community -> presto-user, and presto-tsc -> presto-dev

- Separation of TSC & committers, finalize process

### Attendees
* Chris Aniszczyk (LF)
* Nezih Yigitbasi (FB)

#### Voting members

#### Not present

### Notes from the meeting
