# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-11-03
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Committer update (Nezih)
* Outreach committee update (Dipti)

### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Leiqing Cai (Facebook)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)

#### Attendees
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Vivek Bharathan (Ahana)
* Dipti Borkar (Ahana)
* Martin Traverso (Starburst)
* David Simmen (Ahana)

### Discussion Items
#### Committer/TSC member separation (Nezih Yigitbasi)
Nezih introduced the topic of the proposal to separate the role of committer and TSC member. The proposal has been voted on via email, and approved by all members of the committee. 
Proposal link: https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/54

#### Outreach Update (Dipti Borkar)
Dipti introduced discussion of the outreach committee and foundation updates. A new member company has joined Presto Foundation, Upsolver is the newest member of the foundation. Dipti also shared that the next planned meetup is this Friday, November 6. The meetup group has grown to 800 members. Dipti also shared that the outreach committee is beginning planning for the first half of 2021, and is requesting more involvement from the TSC community and members. The committee is also looking into planning a mid-year event for 2021. 
