# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-02-25
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar
[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join
TSC meetings are open for all to join.

https://zoom.us/j/762982927

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

- Add attendance requirement to count for quorum [PR #36](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/36)
- Election cycle [Issue #39](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/issues/39)
- Membership criteria [Issue #38](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/issues/38)
- Holding off renaming presto-tsc until the vote completes
- New Zoom coming soon

### Attendance

#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)
* Leiqing Cai (Facebook)

#### Attendees
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Haoyuan Li (Alluxio)
* Pelee (PAO)
* Gurmeet Singh (Uber)
* Vineeth Karayil Sekharan
* Vivek Bharathan

#### Not present
* Maria Basmanova (Facebook)
* Girish Baliga (Uber)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)

### Action Items
1. Rebecca and Zhenxiao will assemble requirements and a template application for TSC membership

### Discussion Items

#### Add attendance requirement to count for quorum PR #36
Brian recapped the topic of updating requirements for quorum and inclusion of members that repeatedly miss TSC meetings. A vote was held and a decision made to move forward with merging this PR. 

#### Election cycle Issue #39
Brian reviewed this issue to introduce discussion of how often and how much of the TSC should turnover during election cycle. Discussion ensued regarding term length, and the merits of two year terms vs three year terms. A vote was held and consensus was reached to limit terms to three years. 

#### Membership criteria Issue #38
Brian reviewed this issue, and how it pertains to the requirement for TSC voting members to be committers. A suggestion was made in a previous call to add members that are not committers for strategic reasons. Zhenxiao suggested adding requirements for non-committer TSC members such as community engagement, etc. Brian suggested the TSC document core principles of what is expected of TSC candidates. Zhenxiao mentioned a concern with how contributions are measured for non-committer members. Brian suggested that candidates be required to assemble a proposal including what contributions have been made to the community. Zhenxiao and Rebecca took the action item to develop requirements and create an application template. 

#### Holding off renaming presto-tsc until the vote completes
Brian advised the group that he will delay renaming the lists until the vote concludes on the TSC README

#### New Zoom coming soon
Brian informed the group that he will be updating the invite with the new Presto Zoom information as we are currently using the Zoom account for CNCF. 
