# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-04-07
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Event discussion
* Review changes to README.md (original policies/procedures plus new additions)
    * Already-reviewed changes(https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/43)
    * New policies/procedures(https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/46)
* [Eligibility to be on the TSC](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/issues/38)
* Create a Presto Foundation directory (example from [OpenJS Foundation](https://github.com/openjs-foundation/))

### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)


#### Attendees
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Amit Chopra (Facebook) 
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)

#### Not present
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)
* Leiqing Cai (Facebook)
* Maria Basmanova (Facebook)
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Girish Baliga (Uber)

### Action Items

### Discussion Items
#### Event discussion
Nezih introduced the topic of the upcoming virtual event. The virtual event will take place on 4/24, please save the date. There will be multiple talks. Video conference links will be shared in the coming weeks. 

#### Review changes to README.md (original policies/procedures plus new additions)
* Already-reviewed changes(https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/43)
* New policies/procedures(https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/46)
 
Brian introduced the topic of the changes to README.md and provided an overview of what is included in each of the PRs. PR #43 includes updates to the TSC election cycle and eligibility. A vote will be taken over email for PR #43. 
 
Brian provided an overview of PR #46 which includes updates to the Policies and Procedures section of the README.md. The updates include guidance for merging PRs to allow time for members across different time zones to review open items and provide feedback. Discussion ensued regarding the updates to PR #46. Nezih asked the TSC to read the PR and provide comments and feedback. 

#### Eligibility to be on the TSC

Brian introduced the topic of TSC membership criteria and eligibility in PR #38. The topic was introduced in a previous TSC meeting to determine if non-committers can be eligible to become TSC voting members. General consensus was reached in a previous meeting that there should be clear and specific criteria for membership for non-committers. Discussion ensued regarding eligibility criteria. 

#### Create a Presto Foundation directory (example from OpenJS Foundation)
Brian introduced the topic of a directory, and shared the example from OpenJS Foundation. All members are encouraged to review the example to consider adding a directory for the Presto Foundation. 
