# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-09-01
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Outreach Committee Update (Dipti Borkar)


### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)

#### Attendees
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Dipti Borkar (Ahana)
* George Wang (Alibaba)
* David Simmen (Ahana)

#### Not present
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)
* Leiqing Cai (Facebook)
* Maria Basmanova (Facebook)
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Girish Baliga (Uber)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)
* Ariel Weisberg (Facebook)
* Haoyuan Li (Alluxio)
* Pelee (PAO)
* Gurmeet Singh (Uber)
* Amit Chopra (Facebook) 
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)
* Vineeth Karayil Sekharan (Facebook)
* Vivek Bharathan
* Vivek (Ahana)
* Martin Traverso 
* Mayank Garg (Facebook)


### Action Items
None

### Discussion Items

#### Unification Update

Brian Warner shared an update regarding unification with the Presto Software Foundation. Work is still in progress to merge the communities, and discussions are ongoing assessing differences between the technologies, and how the technologies may merge. 

#### Outreach Committee Update

Dipti Borkar, the outreach committee chairperson, shared an update from the outreach committee. The outreach committee is hosting monthly meetups, and has seen strong interest with 100+ attendees per session. Dipti encouraged the TSC to offer talks or send requests/suggestions for talks to the outreach committee. Dipti also shared an update about PrestoCon. The event is on September 24, 2020 and registration is open. There are many speakers lined up, but there is a gap in diversity. The TSC may reach the outreach committee at outreach@lists.prestodb.io.
