# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-12-01
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Update on outreach (Dipti Borkar)
* TSC Chair Election (Gale McCommons)


### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Tim Meehan (Facebook)
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)

#### Attendees
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Gurmeet Singh (Uber)
* Amit Chopra (Facebook)
* Vivek Bharathan (Ahana)
* Dipti Borkar (Ahana)
* David Simmen (Ahana)
* Steven Mih (Ahana)
* Yoni Eini (Upsolver)
* Mei Long (Upsolver)

#### Not present
* Ashish Tadose (Ahana) 
* George Wang (Alibaba)
* Martin Traverso (Starburst)
* Mayank Garg (Facebook)
* Vineeth Karayil Sekharan (Facebook)
* Haoyuan Li (Alluxio)
* Pelee (PAO)
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)
* Leiqing Cai (Facebook)
* Maria Basmanova (Facebook)
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Girish Baliga (Uber)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)
* Ariel Weisberg (Facebook)


### Action Items
1. 

### Discussion Items
#### Outreach Committee Update (Dipti Borkar)
Dipti introduced the topic of outreach committee update, and shared an update on the Presto Foundation meetup program. Meetups have continued to take place monthly, and the program has reached 900 members with a target goal of 1000 members by the end of the year. Dipti also shared that two new members have joined the Foundation, and welcomed Upsolver and Intel. Dipti also shared a six month plan the outreach committee has assembled to develop sub-committees to increase community engagement. The sub-committees will own key outreach programs. The outreach committee is also planning to host a virtual event in February or March of 2021. 
#### TSC Chair Election (Gale McCommons)
Gale provided an overview of the upcoming TSC chair election. The nomination period will run for two weeks, followed up by a two week election period. Gale will send the nominations and election cycle dates to the TSC over email. 

