# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-01-28
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:30 AM PST

##### Community Calendar
[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join
TSC meetings are open for all to join.

https://zoom.us/j/762982927

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda
- FYI PrestoCon + CFP closes Feb 7th: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/prestocon/
- Code of Conduct Approval: https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/11
- Approve default CONTRIBUTING.md: https://github.com/prestodb/.github/pull/1
  - Discuss deprecating overlapping content in the wiki
- Discuss [changes to tsc README.md](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/28)
  - Terms of TSC members
  - Who is eligible to be a TSC member
  - Nominating procedures
  - Election procedures
  - Replacement procedures
  - For consideration:
    - Clarify quorum rules (e.g., members who miss _n_ consecutive meetings don't count toward quorum)?
    - Set a maximum number of TSC members?
    - Create a few governing board-appointed seats for bidirectional representation?
- Rename mailing lists: presto-community -> presto-user, and presto-tsc -> presto-dev
- Separation of TSC & committers, finalize process
- Cherry-pick from prestosql, author && process

### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)

#### Attendees
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Gale Mccommons (Linux Foundation)
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook)
* Ariel Weisberg (Facebook)
* Jessica Zhang (Alibaba)
* Haoyuan Li

#### Not present
* Masha Basmanova (Facebook)

### PrestoCon
One day event on 03/24
Schedule is still in progress
CFP closes on Feb. 7
Early bird registration closes on Feb. 7
### Action Items
1. Gale/Brian will send a vote to the TSC mailing list for Code of Conduct and CONTRIBUTING.md, and the TSC README
2. Brian will send template re: CLA for CONTRIBUTING.md

### Code of Conduct approval
Brian Warner proposed a standard Linux Foundation Code of Conduct for adoption by the Presto TSC. 
Decision: A vote will be taken over email to approve the Code of Conduct
 
### CONTRIBUTING.md approval
Brian Warner proposed an update to the CONTRIBUTING.md file to standardize contribution practices across projects. 
Decision: A vote will be taken over email to approve the updated CONTRIBUTING.md file

### TSC README.md update
Clarification of members:  Charter states initial membership is limited to committers to Presto during bootstrap period
Discussion ensued regarding membership and TSC membership practices, and non-committing members. Wenlei noted practices for resignation from the TSC are also needed. Ariel noted that TSC voting members may be considered not required for quorum if they do not attend 2+ meetings. 
Brian also introduced the option to set a maximum number of TSC members to facilitate balancing voting and elections. 
Decision: All will review the README, and a vote will be held over email

### Mailing List Updates
Ariel discussed revising the mailing list naming convention to change “Presto-Community” to “Presto-User” and “Presto-TSC” to “Presto-Dev”. Discussion ensued regarding changes to mailing list names. 
Decision: Brian will introduce the topic of the mailing list revisions to the TSC mailing list. 

### Presto SQL, Author & Process
Zhenxiao added this topic, and asked if we are cherry picking Presto SQL, and if cherry picker then becomes author with initial author becoming a co-author. Ariel noted that this route adheres to Presto license.

### Call for Q&A
Nezih opened the discussion for Q&A. There were no questions, and the meeting adjourned at 10:03 PT. 

