# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-02-02
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Conformance Program (Gale)
* Google Summer of Code (Gale/Nezih)
* Update on outreach (Dipti Borkar)


### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Leiqing Cai (Facebook)
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)

#### Attendees
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Dipti Borkar (Ahana, Outreach Committee Chairperson)
* Amit Chopra (Facebook)
* Vineeth Karayil Sekharan (Facebook)
* George Wang (Alibaba)
* Mei Long (Upsolver)
* David Charboneau (OpenTeams)
* Kamil Bajda-Pawlikowski (Starburst)

#### Not present
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)
* Maria Basmanova (Facebook)
* Girish Baliga (Uber)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)
* Ariel Weisberg (Facebook)
* Tim Meehan (Facebook)
* Haoyuan Li (Alluxio)
* Pelee (PAO)
* Gurmeet Singh (Uber)
* Vivek Bharathan (Ahana)
* Martin Traverso (Starburst)
* Mayank Garg (Facebook)
* David Simmen (Ahana)
* Steven Mih (Ahana)
* Ashish Tadose (Ahana) 
* Prasan (Ahana)
* Reetika (Ahana)
* Yoni Eini (Upsolver)
* Jason Fine (Upsolver)
* Jalpreet Singh Nanda (Ahana)

### Discussion Items

#### Conformance Program (Gale McCommons)
Gale provided a high level overview of conformance programs, and shared that PrestoDB will be standing up a conformance program. Steve Winslow, LF legal counsel, will be attending the next Presto TSC meeting to provide additional information. 

#### Google Summer of Code (Gale/Nezih)
Nezih shared that GSoC is an opportunity to focus talent on ideas, features, and enhancements to presto. Nezih encouraged TSC members to submit ideas for proposals. Volunteers will be expected to mentor students, and make a time investment of several hours/week to help and elevate participating students. Gale shared that mentors and mentees are both paid via a stipend. Nezih noted that he previously shared additional resources over email. Gale created a /mentoring repo with a template for the 2021 application. Applications are open, and the deadline is February 19th. 
https://github.com/prestodb/mentoring/blob/main/summerofcode/2021.md
https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/

Amit Chopra shared that Major League Hacking is an alternative mentorship program that PrestoDB can participate in as an alternative. Deadline may 10th.


https://fellowship.mlh.io/programs/open-source

#### Update on outreach (Dipti Borkar)
Dipti shared the Presto conference plans for March 24. The main thing for the TSC to know is that the CFP is open, and Dipti recommended and encouraged submitting a CFP. There is a lot of great work going on including the multi-coordinator work, C++, and connector work. The end date for the CFP is Feb 9. The outreach committee has also expanded the meetup list beyond the bay area. New york, London, Bangalore, and Sydney are in place, and the program is expanding into more regions. The meetup program just started a few weeks ago, and is close to 100 members across that are all new members. A new presto mailing list managed by the foundation has been created, and the outreach committee is sending out monthly newsletters about various events, and blogs. Mei is leading the blog program, and if you have a blog idea, ping Mei Long. Dipti also welcomed new member Starburst. Presto Hour office hours have kicked off on Slack. 

Link to CFP: https://linuxfoundation.smapply.io/prog/prestocon_day_2021/ 
Link to event: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/prestocon-day/
