# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-02-02
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Conformance Program (Steve Winslow)

### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Ariel Weisberg (Facebook)
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)

#### Attendees
* Steve Winslow (Linux Foundation)
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Gurmeet Singh (Uber)
* Amit Chopra (Facebook)
* Vivek Bharathan (Ahana)
* George Wang (Alibaba)
* Mei Long (Upsolver)
* Jason Fine (Upsolver)
* David Charboneau (OpenTeams)
* Kamil Bajda-Pawlikowski (Starburst)

#### Not present
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)
* Leiqing Cai (Facebook)
* Maria Basmanova (Facebook)
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Girish Baliga (Uber)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)

### Discussion Items
#### Conformance Program (Steve Winslow)
Nezih introduced Steve Winslow to begin discussion of the conformance program to share how the program functions. The overview of conformance programs, the idea is that programs have their own identity and code base. When talking about Presto, we know we’re talking about the presto project. Downstream consumers will want a way to talk about their implementations or repackaging or distribution of the project. This is something we see in other open source projects. We want to be clear about what the open source project is, and to allow downstream projects to be their own product, and also have a way to communicate to customers and consumers that their product is interoperable with PrestoDB. On the technical side, groups building the open source project sit down and decide what is considered part of the open source. Conformant and interoperable can mean API compatibility. At the open source project level, the project decides the criteria. That could mean a requirement to pass a series of checks, or other times can mean plugins, and downstream consumers create plugins and plugins to meet a certain set of criteria or technical definition in order to pass as conformant. The Conformance program is the operational process of how all this happens. Downstream products or services go through a series of self tests or predefined lab tests to verify they are conformant. After they pass and prove they are conformant, the project can have a badge or something to convey/communicate they have passed conformance requirements. This can be used on marketing or product, and can be used as a way to communicate to customers that they are interoperable and meet conformance criteria. This helps the ecosystem to stay interoperable with one another and also allow people to build their own products that are built around trademarks and trademark conformance. Things for the TSC to consider - how do you demonstrate you are conformant. If you do demonstrate you are conformant, then you get to use the trademark in your marketing.
Ariel Weisberg asked what people who are conformant are allowed to do. Steve explained that LF trademark guidelines spell out what people are allowed to do with trademarks. 
Steve Winslow proceeded to explain the Governing board level vs TSC level. The program is set in governing board charter, and it falls within the responsibility of the governing board to establish a conformance program. Steve Winslow shared the governing board charter, section 3 includes overall management including establishing a conformance program and soliciting input from the TSC. The trademark for Presto and the conformance mark are assets that are overseen by LF and the directed fund. Establishing the program as a whole is the responsibility of the governing board. The governing board will generally look to the TSC to develop the conformance definitions and work together to figure out the details of what is in scope and what is not in scope. LF has a set of terms and conditions and templates that have been built over the years to establish conformance programs for other projects. The LF team would put those in place to enable downstream consumers to participate in the conformance program and receive the conformance mark. 
Testing tools: Steve shared ways projects do this, for example certified kubernetes has a self-test suite and anyone that wants to participate grabs that test suite and runs it on their own distro of kubernetes and it runs the full set of tests that the kube community has decided to include in their definition. It creates a self test report, submit a PR to conformance repo that includes a copy of the test results. Other projects have an assertion method that is similar to a checkbox for products to agree that they will comply to conformance criteria. Generally, open source projects have more success using a test suite or set of testing criteria. Some other projects alternatively use a third party to test components for conformance. 
Nezih asked how other projects maintain conformance definitions as the technology changes, and noted that he can see upsides, but can also see it may be a bad experience for vendors if they have to re-conform. Steve shared that in terms of who is maintaining the definition over time, may be TSC as a whole or a working group. Could be any sort of coordination, but is up to TSC to decide how it will be maintained. In terms of how often changes are made and how it is adopted by vendors. Definitions will change over time. Definitions should it be bit for bit binary. If there is frequent release of project’s source code or build artifacts, a project typically will want conformance definition to be less frequent. If releases are every two weeks, vendors cannot reliably handle change frequency, and the project may consider every year or every half year. Some projects, like kubernetes, have a new release of kubernetes every 3-4 months, so they have time to update the conformance criteria in alignment with the new versions. Anyone participating must be in conformance with most current release or most current -1. 
Ariel asked if TSC are able to make exceptions to the criteria. Example, some vendor is not able to keep up with release cadence due to the amount of private changes. Steve noted that a couple of components of this working effectively includes considering vendor neutrality. More definition is demonstrated, then more can be tied to specific objective criteria the better. Exceptions for particular vendors may be difficult or become problematic. If it’s an issue of multiple vendors in the ecosystem experiencing issues in a specific area may indicate that the topic area may not be appropriate to include in conformance criteria. 
https://github.com/prestodb/foundation/blob/main/Presto%20Participation%20Agreement%2020191015.pdf
