# Presto TSC Meeting

### 2020-01-05
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* Community Update (Nezih Yigitbasi)
* Update on outreach (Dipti Borkar)
* Apache Ranger plugin (Ashish Tadose)


### Attendance
#### Voting members
* Nezih Yigitbasi (Facebook, TSC Chairperson)
* Venki Korukanti (Uber)
* Rebecca Schlussel (Facebook)
* Leiqing Cai (Facebook)
* Shixuan Fan (Facebook)
* Bin Fan (Alluxio)

#### Attendees
* Brian Warner (Linux Foundation)
* Gale McCommons (Linux Foundation)
* Dipti Borkar (Ahana, Outreach Committee Chairperson)
* Gurmeet Singh (Uber)
* Amit Chopra (Facebook)
* Vivek Bharathan (Ahana)
* George Wang (Alibaba)
* David Simmen (Ahana)
* Ashish Tadose (Ahana) 
* Prasan (Ahana)
* Reetika (Ahana)
* Mei Long (Upsolver)
* Jason Fine (Upsolver)
* Jalpreet Singh Nanda (Ahana)

#### Not present
* Wenlei Xie (Facebook)
* James Sun  (Facebook)
* Zhenxiao Luo (Twitter)
* Andrii Rosa (Facebook)
* Maria Basmanova (Facebook)
* Rongrong Zhong (Facebook)
* Girish Baliga (Uber)
* Ariel Weisberg (Facebook)
* Tim Meehan (Facebook)
* Haoyuan Li (Alluxio)
* Pelee (PAO)
* Vineeth Karayil Sekharan (Facebook)
* Martin Traverso (Starburst)
* Mayank Garg (Facebook)
* Yoni Eini (Upsolver)
* Steven Mih (Ahana)

### Action Items
1. 

### Discussion Items

#### Community Update (Nezih Yigitbasi)
Nezih Yigitbasi shared a community update, and noted that the Presto community has been split in two since 2019, and the other Presto community has been renamed. He also congratulated the other community, and shared that they are welcome to continue participating in the Presto Foundation.
#### Update on outreach (Dipti Borkar)
Dipti Borkar shared an update from the outreach committee. PrestoCon day is planned for March 2021, and a CFP is coming up for a mix of topics. She shared that the virtual meetup group grew from 100 members to 950 in 2020. There were 14 tech talks in 2020. The outreach committee has started sub-committees to focus on virtual workshops, community communication, and slack channels. A new mailing list has been created based on PrestoCon registrations, and updates will start getting sent to the new list. She encouraged everyone to participate in the Presto slack to help answer questions from users. Dipti Borkar noted key areas where users are asking for more information including UDF features, AWS cloud questions, security integrations, and connectors. She also shared that the TSC architect role is still being worked on, and she will create a PR to get feedback from the community. 
#### Apache Ranger plugin (Ashish Tadose)
Ashish Tadose shared an update on the Apache Ranger plugin. He shared an overview of presto authorization models. He also shared the Apache Ranger is a widely used plugin. It integrates with widely used authentication systems. Ranger does not need to replicate user identities. Ranger allows you to define custom policies. 

