 Presto TSC Meeting

### 2022-06-07
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* [Tim] Update on code owners
* [Tim] PrestoCon
* [Rohan] Conformance program update
* [Pranjal] HBO design overview
* [Chunxu/Beinan] Presto query resource usage prediction

### Attendance
#### Voting members

* Tim Meehan | Meta
* Beinan Wang | Alluxio
* Bin Fan | Alluxio
* Rongrong Zhong | Alluxio

#### Attendees
* Jim Apple | Meta
* Ke Wang | Meta
* Pranjal Shankhdhar | Meta
* Rohan Pednekar | Ahana
* George Wang | Ahana
* Linsong Wang | Ahana
* Chunxu Tang | Twitter
* Kamil Bajda-Pawlikowski | starburst
* Eric Liu

### Action Items
* Are there any other features/bugs or community development activities that may use TSC funds? (TBD)
* Tim will help Chunxun to setup a separate repo for query predictor project to merge 

### Discussion Items

* [Tim Meehan] Quick update on the code ownership program:
  * Good first use case for apache HUDI connector as the Apache HUDI folks have expressed an interest in participating in the code ownership program and the TSC has been receptive to that. 
  * TSC is open for other connector code ownership
* [Tim Meehan] Second update: from presto landing page:
  * The upcoming virtual PrestoCon is set on 07/21/2022. CFP had closed but feel free to reach out to Tim or Presto outreach committee for late submission
* [Rohan Pednekar] Update on conformance program
  * Conformance committee has established teh cost definition for the downstream implementation of Presto and brainstorm a list of features and categorization that differentiates and defines what Presto is. The plan of next step is to create a test suite to provide different kind of pass/fail based on conformance's definition. This will need to be approved by TSC. Given this requirement, it is in the progress to hire a QA contractor by June 15.
    * Jim questioned about why Conformance is entitled to the TSC fund to hire a QA contractor.
    * Tim explains that it's possible to plan indirect fund budget from contractor supported TSC funds to community support through Github issues awaiting community help based on the importance of uses of the funds.
* [Pranjal Shankhdhar] HBO project update
    - Discuss current state of Presto CBO and understand the problems with stats estimation to see if more accurates stats using histories can help performance
      - hard to approximate accurate statistics as filters get complex
      - most queries are programmatically generated
      - fetch cardinalities and other stats from historical similar runs
    - Solution/Proposed 
      - plan is to extract stats from previously run queries including the subqueries
      - build a framework to store historical statistics for queries.
      - Approach to find similar queries:
        - canonicalize a plan so similar queries map to same plan. 
        - hash each plan node subtree and then same hash will correspond to similar queries
        - Store stats for each hash subtree
        - Canonicalization strategy 1:
          - Assume all partitions are same
          - Remove RHS values of partition filters
          - This approach fits well for daily datawarm workload
        - Canonicalization strategy 2:
          - Remove all constants in the query
          - This approach fits well for interactive workload
        - Hashing is complicated
          - compute merkle hash of plan tree, like converting a tree to a string
          - sort children nodes when order doesn't matter like for the cases in UNION
          - Coalesce inner join nodes to assume this is a single join node in a canonical plan
          - projections and expressions need to be sorted
          - remove internal variables using presto inline
        - The goal is keep a simple canonical plan structure for hashing
      - Collecting stats
        - Presto currently collects operator level stats. The proposal is to map operators to physical plan and then map physical plan to logical plan which include remote exchanges and local exchanges. This step is to get the statistics on this mapping operators from the physical plan back to the logical plan and store the stats accordingly for logical plan nodes.
    - Discuss more use cases and stats store to plug HBO stats instead of CBO stats
      - Redundant partial aggregations
        - reduce data exchange by removing partial aggregations if no cardinality reduction on grouping keys as aggregations have too many distincts from history stats
      - join distribution type
        - broadcast vs. partitioned join by providing better stats to CBO
      - Hash partition count
        - can be used to tweak per stage parallelism instead of a fixed constant for the entire query
        - may reduce hash partition count for small queries which can lead to better resource utilization and overall wall time
        - may need to store stats for physical plan instead of logical plan per stage
      - Previously failed queries
        - Apply rules to make previously OOM-ed queries work by fixing join ordering or join distribution type
      - Stats store:
        - use a key-value store for query_hash -> stats
        - store stats in a thrift structure
        - keep data of last x runs or daily running averages of every stats upto x days
        - keep variances to track confidence in histories
        - Stats API
          - HistoryBasedStatsProvider
          - Stats Store
            - PlanStatisticsHistory getStats(PlanNodeHash)
            - putStats(PlanNOdeHash, PlanStatisticsHistory)
          - use kv store or mysql with indices
          - implementation configurable via plugin framework
        
* [Chunxun Tang & Beinan Wang] Presto query resource usage prediction (Query Predictor)
  * Plan to contribute to the presto community written in python code using a separate repo so presto may use
  * Predicate the query usage of each query before presto executes by using ML techniques to train CPU model and Memory model.
