Presto TSC Meeting

### 2022-09-13
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda
*
* Update on presto-native-execution aka Prestissimo.
* [Linsong/Ethan] OSS Presto Development & Release [pdf](/meetings/files/2022-09-13/oss-presto-development-and-release.pdf)

### Attendance
#### Voting members

* Tim Meehan | Meta
* Rebecca Schlussel | Meta
#### Attendees
* Deepak Majeti | Ahana | Pittsburgh
* Linsong Wang | Ahana | San Jose. CA
* Jim Apple | Meta
* George Wang | Ahana
* Linsong Wang | Ahana
* Ethan Zhang | Ahana
* Vivek | Ahana
* Kamil Bajda-Pawlikowski | starburst
*
### Action Items
* N/A

### Discussion Items

* Deepak shared the high level content for Prestissimo and details about the current state of the project.
    * Prestissimo is built on top of velox. The plan is split into fragments for which each fragment is shipped over over HTTP by encoding as JSON blobs to c++ workers
    * Connector splits are fundamental units for data processing
    * All TPC-H queries can be executed by velox for Prestissimo.
    * Parquet, DWRF readers with Aria optimizations are supported.
    * Many common presto functions are supported currently
    * Works in progress:
        * complete all TPC-DS coverage, decimal type support and window functions are being worked on
        * improvement for testing and benchmarking are on high priority
    * In terms of priorities and challenges, Deepak pointed out that one priority is to bring prestissimo to community and ensure it's the first class presto citizen
    * One challenge is that JNI capability can only be executed on java-only execution engine.
    * For new starter, README in presto native execution engine has all the details
    * Performnace benefits using prestissimo vary depends on how good the plan can be generated by presto optimizer
    * Shared google doc is here (https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1mdt4wBs5XMO63MICJegEc_jIMvG9Zd1mwrT-q3PnlwA/edit?usp=sharing)
* Linsong shared OSS presto development cycle for new release proposal
    * Presto foundation member Ahana is going to take more responsiblity for building the release process as to provide service for the community
    * proposal is to include a stable release and an edge release where stable release is going to have a monthly release vs. edge release is weekly
    * Every commits to every branch can be executed via github actions
        * build verification pipeline is required when merging a PR to master branch.
        * It's also required when backporting a fix into a stable release branch
    * Deployment verification pipeline includes a build of artifacts, deployment to a presto cluster and then run benchto, verifier, and other queries.
    * System verification pipeline can be executed by building the existing artifact and run various system tests
    * Shared google doc is here (https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1sXXgXnYz0pjelQmllBEpZGW8tfO2Po8DhfAr8WV8kaQ/edit?usp=sharing)
