 Presto TSC Meeting

### 2022-05-03
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* [Tim] [Charter merged for Community Support Working Group](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/84)
   * If you're interested in taking part, please subscribe:  community-support-wg-internal+subscribe@lists.prestodb.io
* [Tim] Changes to committer rules in `prestodb/presto`
   * [CODEOWNERS file](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/17669)
   * [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/17704)
* [Tim] Changes to related companies provision in the charter.
   * https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/85

### Attendance
#### Voting members

* Tim Meehan (Meta)
* Zhenxiao (Twitter)

#### Attendees

* Ted Dunning (HPE)
* George Wang (Ahana)
* Kamil (Starburst)

#### Not present

### Action Items


### Discussion Items
- TSC has merged the charter for the community support working group. 
  - Tim will send email people for reminder on subscription of the list. 
  - The program will be kicked off within the next few weeks. 
  - The goal is to start measuring and figuring out ways to improve the developer's experience in the community.
- There has been some minor changes to the committer rules which are added in a new CODEOWNERS file to prestoDB repo that allows developer to specify who has the ability to merge a PR. 
  - This allows developer to obtain the approval from a committer and anyone can merge the code whereas before only committer can approve and merge the code. 
  - This also allows code ownership even if the develop is not a committer.
  - Pull request now is leveraging code owner functionality.
  - A feedback comment from the audience is that the experience from the Apache community is that giving slightly more expansive permissions is a good thing. 
  - Tim clarifies that the intent is not to restrict the PR merge but rather it will take time to move everyone's way of thinking to the case where people can do contribution to have a better open source release infrastructure in a self-service way.
- A minor change to the TSC charter in terms of removing related companies provision in TSC charter
- Tim also made a quick update on the release for 0.272 that there will be 0.272.1 release due to a change in hive connector causing issue to other connectors that end up using the change.