 Presto TSC Meeting

### 2022-08-02
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda

* [Chunxu/Beinan] Presto router design
* [Rohan Pednekar] Conformance Program Update and Call for Volunteers. 

### Attendance
#### Voting members

* Tim Meehan | Meta
* Rebecca Schlussel | Meta
* Zhenxiao Luo | Twitter
* Beinan Wang | Alluxio

#### Attendees
* Jim Apple | Meta
* Chunxu Tang |  Twitter
* Leon So | Meta
* Ted Dunning | HPE
* George Wang | Ahana
* Rohan Pednekar | Ahana
* Vivek Bharathan | Ahana
* Kamil Bajda-Pawlikowski | starburst

### Action Items
* N/A

### Discussion Items

* Chunxu shared the presto router design:
  * Backgound:
    * Deployment in Twitter for 2 years.
    * At Twitter traditionally large clusters are allocated independently could result in unbalance resource usage. 
    * User also needs to know each clusters' endpoint for usage. 
    * The presto router is designed to introduce a layout between user and all the physical clusters.
  * Design：
    * Presto router will be responsible to send a query to a specific cluster by workload balancing mechanism using round-robin hash or random choice. 
    * Clusters may be logically grouped, so router can decide query to run on which group of cluster per query pattern.
    * In addition, Twitter engineers develops query predictor which is contributed to presto oss via a different repo
      * Purpose of the query predictor is to forecast resource usage of some incoming SQL queries. 
      * This is the estimated results usage for presto router which enables a more intelligent way of scheduling query across the clusters.
      * Presto router also periodically collects statistics from all the clusters.
    * This feature also comes with a Router UI which is a unified UI of all the clusters with some aggregated stats of current status of all the presto clusters.
* Presto Conformance program updates by Rohan
  * Categorizes a set of features that defines what makes presto the "presto"
  * Looking for volunteers/contributors to join the conformance work group to build the conformance test cases. Reach out to Rohan and/or Tim if interested
