Presto TSC Meeting

### 2023-05-09
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda
* **Michelle**: LF account housekeeping
* **Amit**: Velox/Prestissimo coverage map
* **Tim**: Longer term plan for committership and codeowners
* **Tim**: Problems the TSC should solve
* **Tim**: TSC elections

### Attendance
#### Voting members

#### Attendees

### Action Items

### Discussion Items

* Michelle shared [openprofile.dev](openprofile.dev)
   * LFX platform — all contributions and metrics available to the community in one place.  Going over the individual dashboard
   * Helps organizations keep track of contributions and affiliating them with the proper organization.  LFX keeps that information in one place.
   * There is an individual dashboard that is self-managed and used to showcase contributions and badges.   Includes events, meetings.  One stop shop for projects.  
      * Step 1: build your profile.  Add your affiliation and organization.  Can be used to redeem discounts on training and certifications.  In future, can be used as a rewards platform.  
         * Add profile to Git and LinkedIn.  Pulls all your employment information and dates to associate you with proper organization for contributions.  
         * Really important that this is being updated and maintained.
         * Add past email addresses to ensure good history of contributions.
      * Getting started guide video: [YouTube](https://youtu.be/KJagLp_KJ7M)
   * Tim: this sounds like this should be included in the Getting Started guide on the project.
* **Tim**: Problems the TSC should solve
   * improving the technical community (growing it, bringing other points of view and perspectives). ensure people get timely responses, feel welcome
   * Document with ideas that Tim shared https://ahanaio.notion.site/Technical-community-needs-c15a13d5d099491fbe65dd76fd455e4e
* **Tim**: TSC elections
   * 3 seats up for election in May - stay tuned for more info (probably in 1-2 weeks) 
   * open PR on the TSC repo for the script of how elections are run https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/pull/106. will work with Deepak on implementing  
* Amit reviewed Velox functional coverage (see attached)
	* David asked if this is from Meta’s perspective and Amit clarified it is.  Link to neutral mapping: facebookincubator.github.io/velox/functions/coverage.html
	* David asked if we could have another section for configuration parameters.
