Presto TSC Meeting

### 2023-04-04
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom.us/j/517982206
* password: `prestotsc`

##### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.

### Agenda
* **Ethan/Rohan:** Many PRs were 90%+ reviewed but became stale because the author went dark after submitting the PR or went through the first couple of rounds of reviews. We should allow volunteers to commandeer the PR and make the changes required for the author then merge it. Some examples are:
  - https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/18557
  - https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/18482
  - https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/18172
  - https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/18606
* **Ethan/Linsong:** It is important for both open source contributors and committers to help enforce [Release Notes Guidelines](https://github.com/prestodb/presto/wiki/Release-Notes-Guidelines). We had to deal with a lot of revisions in reviewing https://github.com/prestodb/presto/pull/19143 for stable release 0.280. It shouldn't have been this hard if we can enforce the release note guideline during the code review.
* **Ethan** The speed of releasing new Presto versions really depends on how fast we can get the release note reviewed and merged. If this process takes very long, we may need to skip a monthly release. We really apprciate Rebecca and Ying's help in the most recent review and we call for more participation from other committers to speed this up.
* **Deepak**: How do we ensure/track new contributions that impact Prestissimo?
* **Tim**: Security working group formation

### Attendance
#### Voting members

#### Attendees

### Action Items

### Discussion Items
