## Presto TSC Meeting

### 2023-03-12
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/93067698239?password=a8877dc1-68a2-4ade-9076-d05043c15cd7

#### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.
* Every member is welcome; We are a transparent, collaborative community.
* We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.

##### Antitrust Policy Notice

* Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

* Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

### Agenda

* [Tim] Leaderboard
* [Tim] Recent and upcoming work
* [Tim] Flaky test hackathon
* [Rebecca] Proposed behavior change for NaNs
* [Tim] WAP in Iceberg

### Attendance

#### Voting Members

* Deepak Majeti
* James Sun
* Tim Meehan
* Ying Su
* Aditi Pandit
* Rebecca Schlussel
* Beinan Wang
* Zhenxiao Luo
* Xiaoxuan Meng

"+" = attending


#### Other Attendees


### Discussion Items

- Leaderboard
    - Lots of great involvement from the community!
    - See the [tsc github repo for the leaderboard screenshots](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/tree/master/meetings/files)
- Month in Review - Highlights
    - Logical property propagation is turned on by default - PR prestodb/presto#22013
    - New documentation for the HBO - PR prestodb/presto#22065
    - Directory listing cache in hive connector can now be flushed  - PR prestodb/presto#19821
    - Exchange protocol re-design - Issue prestodb/presto#21926
    - LIKE expressions over CHAR - PR prestodb/presto#22067
    - Row-Level deletes in Iceberg - PR prestodb/presto#21571
- [Tim Meehan] Flaky tests
    - in past few weeks - 80% failure rate on CI tests in native execution
    - Spend ~2 days to go through and resolve flaky test issues
    - Use flaky-test tag in GH issues and PRs
    - March 21st-22nd
    - Dashboard from Linsong to track flaky tests
        - Currently needs authentication, will work to make this public eventually
- [Rebecca Schlussel] Proposed Behavior Change for NaN values
    - Want more consistent behavior across all functions and types with NaN values
    - Spark, Snowflake, postgres, oracle all consider that NaNs equal one another and order is largest w.r.t. all other floating point values
    - MySQL has no NaN support
    - DB2 has two modes - no NaN support and one that matches Spark, Snowflake, etc
    - Biggest changes are that NaNs could be used as join keys and comparison operators
    - Pushing stats down to parquet files
        - Should you push NaN into file metadata (overwriting the "true" max value)?
    - Issue to be filed later this week
- [Tim Meehan] Grammar Changes
    - See issue for full details prestodb/presto#22025
    - WAP workflows (Write-Audit-Publish) needs syntax for table branching, tagging
    - Mostly applicable to table formats (Iceberg, Hudi, Delta, etc)
