## Presto TSC Meeting

### 2023-08-13
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=linuxfoundation.org_vrjlva5b0u73ps75fvnv5sasi4%40group.calendar.google.com&ctz=America%2FChicago) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/93067698239?password=a8877dc1-68a2-4ade-9076-d05043c15cd7

#### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.
* Every member is welcome; We are a transparent, collaborative community.
* We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.

##### Antitrust Policy Notice

* Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

* Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

### Agenda

* [Tim] Note taker?
* [Tim] Leaderboard
* [Tim] RFCs
* [Prashant] [Stats propogation](https://github.com/prestodb/rfcs/pull/14/files)

### Attendance


#### Voting Members

* Jay Narale +
* Andrii Rosa 
* Tim Meehan +
* Ying Su 
* Aditi Pandit +
* Rebecca Schlussel +
* Beinan Wang 
* Zhenxiao Luo
* Amit Dutta 

"+" = attending


#### Other Attendees

* Ali LeClerc
* Anant Aneja
* Deepak Majeti
* Ethan Zhang
* Jalpreet Singh Nanda
* Kiersten Stokes
* Prashant Sharma
* Pratyaksh Sharma
* Steve Burnett
* Yi-hong Wang
* Zac Blanco
* Ying Ying
* Zac Blanco

### Discussion Items

- [Tim] Note taker?
  * Tim will take notes
* [Tim] Leaderboard
* [Tim] RFCs
  * Reviewed RFCs 
* [Prashant] [Stats propogation](https://github.com/prestodb/rfcs/pull/14/files)
  * Many functions don’t have an accurate mechanism to estimate stats
  * We do ad-hoc calculation of stats for very few functions in `ScalarStatsCalculator`
  * The idea is to create a way to generically communicate to the planner how a function affects the output distribution of a projection.
    * This will reduce the occurrences of “unknown” stats which are an optimization barrier.
  * Other engines like Postgres and DuckDB provide similar support 
  * Prashant went into detail on the interface and examples which improve stats estimation.
* [Jay] Table valued functions in Prestissimo
  * Tim discussed the need for a consistent interface between metadata and data for functions, including table valued functions
    * Tim mentioned that Arrow IPC might not be the way to go, instead preferring Arrow over REST
  * Aditi mentioned some challenges with table valued functions, including negotiation of supported type signatures and versioning
  * We were directionally aligned that this is a sound direction, and Jay will further work on the design
