## Presto TSC Meeting

### 2025-10-07
##### 9:00 AM PST to 10:00 AM PST

##### Community Calendar

[Here](https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meetings/presto?view=week) is the public calendar for the Presto TSC meetings.

##### How to Join

TSC meetings are open for all to join.

* https://zoom-lfx.platform.linuxfoundation.org/meeting/93067698239?password=a8877dc1-68a2-4ade-9076-d05043c15cd7

#### Agenda and Attending this meeting

To attend this meeting or propose a topic, edit this page and add your name to the list of attendees below along with your organization and location. Add any agenda item you wish to discuss, please include relevant links.

* This meeting is for the members of the technical steering committee for Presto + wider community.
* To cover everything, discussion may be time-constrained per topic.
* Topics that require less discussion should be covered first.
* To respect meeting size, topics should be relevant to the agenda.
* Every member is welcome; We are a transparent, collaborative community.
* We as members, contributors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a harassment-free experience for everyone.

##### Antitrust Policy Notice

* Linux Foundation meetings involve participation by industry competitors, and it is the intention of the Linux Foundation to conduct all of its activities in accordance with applicable antitrust and competition laws. It is therefore extremely important that attendees adhere to meeting agendas, and be aware of, and not participate in, any activities that are prohibited under applicable US state, federal or foreign antitrust and competition laws.

* Examples of types of actions that are prohibited at Linux Foundation meetings and in connection with Linux Foundation activities are described in the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy available at http://www.linuxfoundation.org/antitrust-policy. If you have questions about these matters, please contact your company counsel, or if you are a member of the Linux Foundation, feel free to contact Andrew Updegrove of the firm of Gesmer Updegrove LLP, which provides legal counsel to the Linux Foundation.

### Agenda

* [Tim] [Leaderboard](https://github.com/prestodb/tsc/tree/master/meetings/files/2025-10-07)
  * [LFX has a leaderboard that mostly tracks the Common Room board.](https://insights.linuxfoundation.org/project/presto/contributors?timeRange=custom&start=2025-09-06&end=2025-10-06&widget=contributors-leaderboard)  Should we use it?
* [Tim] Follow up on Sourcery -- should we continue to use it?
* [Tim] Make mandatory new jobs
  * Maven OWASP check
  * Conventional Commits Check
* [Paula] TDC-DS optimizer results
  * https://github.com/prestodb/presto/issues/24276
  * Performance subpar, mostly due to optimizer
* [Tim] Review RFCs
* [Tim] [Review LFX Insights dashboard](https://insights.linuxfoundation.org/project/presto?timeRange=custom&start=2025-09-06&end=2025-10-06)
  * [Jay] Better default configs, make it easier to try Presto
  * TSC policy on long term thinking
* [Tim] Policy on experimental and proprietary features?

### Attendance

#### Voting Members

* Jay Narale +
* Andrii Rosa +
* Tim Meehan +
* Ying Su
* Aditi Pandit +
* Rebecca Schlussel
* Beinan Wang
* Zhenxiao Luo
* Amit Dutta +

"+" = attending


#### Other Attendees

* Jessica Li
* Li Zhou
* Paula Santos
* Pramod Satya
* Pratyaksh Sharma
* Reetika Agrawal
* Steve Burnett



### Discussion Items

-
